# The Road to Becoming a Professional Developer

The upcoming 20 projects are designed to help you consolidate all the knowledge you have gained in this course. But more importantly, it's a trial by fire. One of the biggest pitfalls for people who are self-taught programmers is getting stuck in tutorial hell. Where you only know how to do the things that the tutorial teaches you and you don't progress to a fully-fledged developer.

The way to get out of tutorial hell is through building projects by yourself, with no guidance. You will get stuck plenty of times, you will struggle a lot and you might doubt yourself. The important phrase to keep in mind is "this happens to everyone". You are not alone. Any pro developer can tell you this, the first time they tried to build a project from scratch was one of the hardest things but also one of the most rewarding. You will need to use all the tools at your disposal - Google, StackOverflow, YouTube, books and past notes. But through struggle, if you don't give up, you will come out the other side a stronger developer.

The next 20 projects are designed to take you from junior developer (relying on tutorials) to professional developer (relying on yourself). They will also build your portfolio. Because for the first time, all the code will be your own. You can copyright your code, you can add them to GitHub to show recruiters, you can build your own company using your code. This is your initiation to professional developer land.

Good luck and I look forward to seeing you on the other side!

Your friend, Angela
